As home gadgets go, the power socket might be the last thing in mind, but it's everywhere in the home. Eubiq is a local Singapore company that is trying to revolutionise the power outlet concept. Eubiq offers a series of modern-looking modular power strips or systems that looks to change the way we think about power strips. 

The greatest advantage of a Eubiq system is the freedom and flexibility it offers. Power points can be added, removed and repositioned anytime and anywhere along the power track, with just a simple push and turn. Super convenient and easy to use. The consumer version sells all by itself and doesn't need to be installed in a wall, which means fewer options for moving the plugs around the track but still more options than a standard power strip. 

In an increasingly connected world, each of us own so many more devices. You got your mobile phone charger, tablet, laptop, computer, TV, DVR, TV Box, gaming console, wearable, etc etc etc. All these devices use electricity and we don't have the luxury of keeping pace by redesigning the electrical supply for your office or home. So, one of the limitations today is that it's not possible to have electrical appliances where we want them. One option is with an extension cord, but that's just plain ugly and leaves a horrible tangle of cable mess.

The new Eubiq system looks to be the first viable answer to this problem merging all possible electrical needs into one streamlined strip. Users can tap into power anywhere along the track by connecting a Eubiq plug, adaptor or accessory. The Eubiq is aesthetic, safe, easy to install and simple to use. Developed with the patented GSS (Ground Sentry Shutter) feature, Eubiq represents a major advancement in the safe provision of power sources. A complete range of Eubiq adaptors are available for all major plug types and Eubiq is seeking distributors in all areas.

I reviewed the Eubiq director track - which comes in two sizes 600mm and 800mm. 

Designed to be easily installed, the power track can be mounted on any existing surface or even recess mounted. There are two different types of power tracks in the range for flexibility and adaptability. The surface mount tracks are a quick and immediate solution that fits onto existing surfaces in homes offices and workshops. The recess mount tracks offer a cleaner, flushed effect and are ideal for integrating into furniture, panels and skirting.

Made from tough, durable aluminium core and covers, the streamlined power track is also in an array of colours, design and finishes to match existing decor. The modular concept track design can be customised to any length and a standard power track can connect up to 12 Eubiq adaptors or 16 Eubiq plugs per metre length. While a standard track comes in lengths of 300mm up to 3.6m, it can be extended easily with connectors or hard-wiring.

Adaptors are available for all major country configurations such as the United Kingdom, the United States, Australia, Japan, Korea, Germany, the Middle East, China, India, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, South Africa and more.

I like the simplicity and ease of use. Turning it on is as simple as turning the adapter clockwise and it locks in place with a click, and the light comes on to indicate the power "on" status. Twist it slightly, and you get the same click to turn off the system. The adapter stays in place on the track when powered off, and can be remvoed if you twist it a full 90 degrees. There are numerous warnings not to slide the adapters, both on the adapters, accessories and on the tracks itself. I guess the way it looks just leads to the assumption that it would be a sliding rail. But its extremly easy to use, my grandmother got the hang of it pretty quickly, and switching on / off got pretty intuitive quickly. 


Across my own experiences after a few friends house warming parties, the Eubiq is popular in the living room as part of the TV console, or in the kitchen due to the ease of switching about or adding new kitchen appliances as and when required. 

If you are renovating your old place and doing minimal renovation work, the Eubiq can still come in handy to expand the power coverage of your home, especially in places where devices or gadgets are not fixed. My own house layout is one or two power sockets at a specific location, and when that's not enough, what ensues is a snaking power extension cord just looks messy and unelegant. 


Through the review, I didn't encounter any significant problems with the system. It can also grow. A 600mm track can accomodate up to around 8 adapters but the limit would be on the current draw, so don't go all to crazy if you are using heavy current consuming devices. But multiple small gadgets shouldn't be a problem. It is the same limit if you overload your home socket with a power extension and four or five adapters should not be a problem for the Eubiq. 
One added feature of the Eubiq is safety. Also, the design is such that no live parts are exposed so I don’t have a fear of being electrocuted if I accidentally jammed my finger in there for any reason. The tech reason is the central strip is the ground connector and the plug needs to twist and contact with teh sides of the track for the live current. This is extremely useful for those with young kids at home and the importance of investing in a better quality system. 

Super convenient and easy to use. 

Need to find a power socket? Simply insert an adaptor that connects to the track with a twist-to-lock mechanism, anywhere along the track and insert a power cord into the adaptor. With this, power source is available anywhere around the house without any need for extension cords. 

Honestly speaking, a power socket is neither sexy, nor stylish and sticks out like a sore thumb in any home interior design masterpiece unless well hidden. That is, until Eubiq came along and brought the common power socket’s sexy back. Eubiq's revolutionary redesign of the common household power socket has won awards worldwide and while it’s still a power socket, we live in the hope that one day their Power Track system may make those garish stormtrooper-white power sockets and extension cords a thing of the past.

Btw, this is not something discreet. If you want to hide your cables under your TV console or in the cabinet, then you really can just go for a traditional power socket. And if you are placing on your table, it does add more depth to it. The difference here is that it looks much better than a traditional power socket, which means less reason to hide it. Certain models do offer cable hiding functionality.   
If you are looking for something discreet, this will add more depth to your table or wherever you install it. For traditional sockets, you only have your plug sticking out. For this system, you need to have an adapter then your plug, so it adds more space/clearance required.
 
However if you are really good with cutting up wires and joining them, they have some adapter available for you to modify on your own plug which will not add to the space/clearance. But after the mod, the device can only be plugged into their tracks.


In all, a good buy. However, make sure to plan for its use like we have, i.e., decide first on the number of electrical appliances needing power before making a purchase. I still feel that the price tag is a little hefty for what it actually is (and for this I cannot give it a full 5 stars!) but it does beat needing to hack into the walls and compromising the fuses in your electrical mains just to add more sockets. I think the safety feature is something that is worth noting too — if we had little ones we won’t need to worry about them reaching the outlet as it is almost at my own eye level, and even if they do, the risk of being electrocuted is greatly minimised due to its design. And if you are a heavy user, Eubiq has it covered with one of hte accessory adapter which is a surge protector. Eubiq advises to connect this at the end with the power extension cord.

It's definitely a want, and at the stage of being a desire. It's not cheap. but it does what it sets out to do very well, looks great, and a worthwhile consideration. Homes, especially in Singapore an expensive investment, and I think the Eubiq does go towards beautifying it quite a fair bit. That's not too bad for a couple of hundred dollars, yeah? You can do much worse :)




Eubiq has grown beyond just basic
power management. It has created
proprietary cables that allow devices
to be plugged directly to the tracks,
with Eubiq’s signature twist-and-lock
connector replacing the two or three
pin plus – like lights that can be
plugged directly into the tracks,
providing immediate and convenient
lighting source to the end user. They
have also been working closely with its
Italian partner to come up with standalone
tracks that can be used in other
settings.



We are now considering another, longer system for our TV area to tackle the wire mish mosh that is taking over the room! Will update more if we do get around to it :)

I think they would be extremely cool in a geek, hardware engineer type desks, so that I can in my electronics anywhere I want, shift them around depending on where I am using them. I have too many gadgets, and with the Eubiq, well, at least I will never run out of sockets for my gadgets. Just need to pop them in. And when I'm done, remove them to keep everything looking neat and tidy. 

One of the cool accessory for the Eubiq is the Aladdin task light which offers this functionality! You can shift it anywhere, plug it in, and bam* lights are on. The adapters also come with universal socket adapters. 
Mike told me about how he wanted these tracks in his workshop. Dreamy-eyed, he spoke of tracks embedded in walls that you can plug in your electronics anywhere you wanted. I was initially like WTF you talking about such things don't exist. BUT THEY DO!

So as you can see, we had one neat track embedded behind the TV to supply electricity to all our TV related electronics... The track came with adapters that can you simply turn and put anywhere else on the track. Plus it looked so darn chic with the blue light... OMG I love it!!

This is why my TV console's wires are so neat and tidy... We added two more adapters on each side in case guests want to charge their phones etc. The adapters came in USB version too, how convenient!



Fitting in
The Power Track system consists of a long metal casing with two rubber flaps in the middle that allow for the adapter (sockets) to be plugged in. The casing can be wall mounted or placed in an area, like a table or a cubicle wall for example, with built in recesses.

Plug and Play Baby!
At any one time, up to ten adapters may be inserted anywhere along the casing and turned on. Safety wise, Eubiq has stated that in the future there will be optional circuit breakers that can be installed in the incoming power supply. Currently, the Power Track is solely dependent on the main circuit breakers in your home, meaning even if you overload the system, the Power Track does nothing.

Let's Do the Twist
Turning on an adapter is quite easy, simply plug it in and twist it to the right. There are no problems with plugging in the socket wrongly as the sockets are designed such that they will pop back out if inserted wrongly.

Properly inserted and twisted, the socket will then connect to the two live electrical lines running inside the casing. Due to the twist, the socket will then be locked in and cannot be removed (extreme force aside). The twisting also releases the connecters to tap into the electrical lines. Sockets that are turned off do not pop out normally and must be pulled out.

Safety First
The Power Track system is pretty much child-proof and idiot-proof; there are no fears of getting an electric shock from sticking fingers inside as the actual live contact points are hidden away and are inaccessible by fingers.

Eubiq has also made an additional safety measure by placing their patented Ground Safety Shutter (GSS) system that immediately grounds potential conducting material that is inserted. The shutter system can be seen by just slightly prying away the rubber flaps. This reviewer has also personally tested the system by inserting a finger into the unit and has emerged unscathed.

Our Thoughts
While the Eubiq Power Track system is definitely innovative, it is still essentially an expensive albeit well designed extension cord/power socket. Priced at a staggering S$240 for the retail pack (comes with one meter track and three adapters) and S$30 per adapter, the Power Track system is designed for users looking for alternatives to messy and unsightly extension cords and power sockets. Users willing to fork out its price will find a power system that will complement a modern and clean look for their homes.
